---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: A Journey Ending in a Beginning
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-02
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

<!-- <img class="ui tiny left circular floated image" src="../images/paintbrushes.jpg"> -->



I’ve been interested in software engineering and programming for quite a
long time – my first experience with programming goes back to when I was 12,
and I attended a C++ summer camp for kids run by a nearby university. Although in
retrospect, C++ may not have been the best choice to start a 12 year old on,
I loved every minute of it, and decided that someday I wanted to pursue a
career working with computers – nothing matches the satisfaction of getting
a computer to do exactly what you want it to do after struggling with it,
and in an increasingly technological and connected world, Computer Science
and all the industries that stem from it are becoming critical in almost
everything we do, from self-driving cars, to life-saving medical equipment,
to safeguarding personal data, to processing taxes and financial
information. From that summer camp to today, I've learned a lot about how computers work, gained extensive experience with Linux and a lot of other open source software, and learned about the basics of computer science - and as that journey ends, a new journey of learning about professional software development and entering the workforce begins.

I decided to attend UH Manoa in order to learn how to develop software
professionally, to get some exposure to the various opportunities that the
field offers, and to learn how to gain a professional presence. I haven’t
yet made up my mind on exactly where I hope to work or in what subfield I
want to specialize in, but I’m most strongly considering either working for
the Federal government as a civil servant, or working in embedded
programming – programming for microcontrollers and machines. I look forward
to the day of being able to look at a useful public service or a product and
be able to say that I helped build it.

